#
# This file is autogenerated by pip-compile with Python 3.11
# by the following command:
#
#    pip-compile requirements.in
#
affine==2.4.0
    # via rasterio
anyio==3.7.1
    # via
    #   jupyter-server
    #   starlette
appnope==0.1.3
    # via
    #   ipykernel
    #   ipython
argon2-cffi==23.1.0
    # via jupyter-server
argon2-cffi-bindings==21.2.0
    # via argon2-cffi
arrow==1.2.3
    # via
    #   cookiecutter
    #   isoduration
asttokens==2.2.1
    # via stack-data
async-lru==2.0.4
    # via jupyterlab
attrs==23.1.0
    # via
    #   jsonschema
    #   rasterio
    #   referencing
babel==2.12.1
    # via jupyterlab-server
backcall==0.2.0
    # via ipython
beautifulsoup4==4.12.2
    # via nbconvert
binaryornot==0.4.4
    # via cookiecutter
black==23.7.0
    # via bmipy
bleach==6.0.0
    # via
    #   nbconvert
    #   panel
bmi-topography==0.8.2
    # via -r requirements.in
bmipy==2.0
    # via bmi-topography
bokeh==3.2.2
    # via panel
cachetools==5.3.1
    # via solara
certifi==2023.7.22
    # via
    #   pyproj
    #   rasterio
    #   requests
cffi==1.15.1
    # via argon2-cffi-bindings
chardet==5.2.0
    # via binaryornot
charset-normalizer==3.2.0
    # via requests
click==8.1.7
    # via
    #   black
    #   bmi-topography
    #   bmipy
    #   click-plugins
    #   cligj
    #   cookiecutter
    #   dask
    #   mesa
    #   rasterio
    #   rich-click
    #   solara
    #   uvicorn
click-plugins==1.1.1
    # via rasterio
cligj==0.7.2
    # via rasterio
cloudpickle==2.2.1
    # via dask
colorcet==3.0.1
    # via holoviews
comm==0.1.4
    # via
    #   ipykernel
    #   ipywidgets
contourpy==1.1.0
    # via bokeh
cookiecutter==2.3.0
    # via mesa
dask[array]==2023.8.1
    # via -r requirements.in
debugpy==1.6.7.post1
    # via ipykernel
decorator==5.1.1
    # via ipython
defusedxml==0.7.1
    # via nbconvert
executing==1.2.0
    # via stack-data
fastjsonschema==2.18.0
    # via nbformat
filelock==3.12.3
    # via solara
fqdn==1.5.1
    # via jsonschema
fsspec==2023.6.0
    # via dask
h11==0.14.0
    # via uvicorn
holoviews==1.17.1
    # via -r requirements.in
humanize==4.8.0
    # via solara
idna==3.4
    # via
    #   anyio
    #   jsonschema
    #   requests
importlib-metadata==6.8.0
    # via dask
ipykernel==6.25.1
    # via
    #   jupyter
    #   jupyter-console
    #   jupyterlab
    #   qtconsole
    #   solara
ipython==8.14.0
    # via
    #   ipykernel
    #   ipywidgets
    #   jupyter-console
ipython-genutils==0.2.0
    # via qtconsole
ipyvue==1.9.2
    # via
    #   ipyvuetify
    #   solara
ipyvuetify==1.8.10
    # via solara
ipywidgets==8.1.0
    # via
    #   ipyvue
    #   jupyter
    #   reacton
    #   solara
isoduration==20.11.0
    # via jsonschema
jedi==0.19.0
    # via ipython
jinja2==3.1.2
    # via
    #   bmipy
    #   bokeh
    #   cookiecutter
    #   jupyter-server
    #   jupyterlab
    #   jupyterlab-server
    #   nbconvert
    #   solara
json5==0.9.14
    # via jupyterlab-server
jsonpointer==2.4
    # via jsonschema
jsonschema[format-nongpl]==4.19.0
    # via
    #   jupyter-events
    #   jupyterlab-server
    #   nbformat
jsonschema-specifications==2023.7.1
    # via jsonschema
jupyter==1.0.0
    # via -r requirements.in
jupyter-client==8.3.0
    # via
    #   ipykernel
    #   jupyter-console
    #   jupyter-server
    #   nbclient
    #   qtconsole
    #   solara
jupyter-console==6.6.3
    # via jupyter
jupyter-core==5.3.1
    # via
    #   ipykernel
    #   jupyter-client
    #   jupyter-console
    #   jupyter-server
    #   jupyterlab
    #   nbclient
    #   nbconvert
    #   nbformat
    #   qtconsole
jupyter-events==0.7.0
    # via jupyter-server
jupyter-lsp==2.2.0
    # via jupyterlab
jupyter-server==2.7.2
    # via
    #   jupyter-lsp
    #   jupyterlab
    #   jupyterlab-server
    #   notebook
    #   notebook-shim
jupyter-server-terminals==0.4.4
    # via jupyter-server
jupyterlab==4.0.5
    # via notebook
jupyterlab-pygments==0.2.2
    # via nbconvert
jupyterlab-server==2.24.0
    # via
    #   jupyterlab
    #   notebook
jupyterlab-widgets==3.0.8
    # via ipywidgets
linkify-it-py==2.0.2
    # via panel
locket==1.0.0
    # via partd
markdown==3.4.4
    # via
    #   panel
    #   pymdown-extensions
    #   solara
markdown-it-py==3.0.0
    # via
    #   mdit-py-plugins
    #   panel
    #   rich
markupsafe==2.1.3
    # via
    #   jinja2
    #   nbconvert
    #   solara
matplotlib-inline==0.1.6
    # via
    #   ipykernel
    #   ipython
mdit-py-plugins==0.4.0
    # via panel
mdurl==0.1.2
    # via markdown-it-py
mesa==2.1.1
    # via -r requirements.in
mistune==3.0.1
    # via nbconvert
mypy-extensions==1.0.0
    # via black
nbclient==0.8.0
    # via nbconvert
nbconvert==7.7.4
    # via
    #   jupyter
    #   jupyter-server
nbformat==5.9.2
    # via
    #   jupyter-server
    #   nbclient
    #   nbconvert
    #   solara
nest-asyncio==1.5.7
    # via ipykernel
networkx==3.1
    # via mesa
notebook==7.0.2
    # via jupyter
notebook-shim==0.2.3
    # via
    #   jupyterlab
    #   notebook
numpy==1.25.2
    # via
    #   bmi-topography
    #   bmipy
    #   bokeh
    #   contourpy
    #   dask
    #   holoviews
    #   mesa
    #   pandas
    #   rasterio
    #   rioxarray
    #   snuggs
    #   xarray
overrides==7.4.0
    # via jupyter-server
packaging==23.1
    # via
    #   black
    #   bokeh
    #   dask
    #   holoviews
    #   ipykernel
    #   jupyter-server
    #   jupyterlab
    #   jupyterlab-server
    #   nbconvert
    #   qtconsole
    #   qtpy
    #   rioxarray
    #   xarray
pandas==2.0.3
    # via
    #   bokeh
    #   holoviews
    #   mesa
    #   panel
    #   xarray
pandocfilters==1.5.0
    # via nbconvert
panel==1.2.1
    # via holoviews
param==1.13.0
    # via
    #   holoviews
    #   panel
    #   pyct
    #   pyviz-comms
parso==0.8.3
    # via jedi
partd==1.4.0
    # via dask
pathspec==0.11.2
    # via black
pexpect==4.8.0
    # via ipython
pickleshare==0.7.5
    # via ipython
pillow==10.0.0
    # via bokeh
platformdirs==3.10.0
    # via
    #   black
    #   jupyter-core
prometheus-client==0.17.1
    # via jupyter-server
prompt-toolkit==3.0.39
    # via
    #   ipython
    #   jupyter-console
psutil==5.9.5
    # via ipykernel
ptyprocess==0.7.0
    # via
    #   pexpect
    #   terminado
pure-eval==0.2.2
    # via stack-data
pycparser==2.21
    # via cffi
pyct==0.5.0
    # via colorcet
pygments==2.16.1
    # via
    #   ipython
    #   jupyter-console
    #   nbconvert
    #   qtconsole
    #   rich
pymdown-extensions==10.2
    # via solara
pyparsing==3.1.1
    # via snuggs
pyproj==3.6.0
    # via rioxarray
python-dateutil==2.8.2
    # via
    #   arrow
    #   jupyter-client
    #   pandas
python-json-logger==2.0.7
    # via jupyter-events
python-slugify==8.0.1
    # via cookiecutter
pytz==2023.3
    # via pandas
pyviz-comms==3.0.0
    # via
    #   holoviews
    #   panel
pyyaml==6.0.1
    # via
    #   bmi-topography
    #   bokeh
    #   cookiecutter
    #   dask
    #   jupyter-events
    #   pymdown-extensions
pyzmq==25.1.1
    # via
    #   ipykernel
    #   jupyter-client
    #   jupyter-console
    #   jupyter-server
    #   qtconsole
qtconsole==5.4.3
    # via jupyter
qtpy==2.3.1
    # via qtconsole
rasterio==1.3.8
    # via rioxarray
reacton==1.7.1
    # via solara
referencing==0.30.2
    # via
    #   jsonschema
    #   jsonschema-specifications
    #   jupyter-events
requests==2.31.0
    # via
    #   bmi-topography
    #   cookiecutter
    #   jupyterlab-server
    #   panel
    #   solara
rfc3339-validator==0.1.4
    # via
    #   jsonschema
    #   jupyter-events
rfc3986-validator==0.1.1
    # via
    #   jsonschema
    #   jupyter-events
rich==13.5.2
    # via
    #   cookiecutter
    #   rich-click
rich-click==1.6.1
    # via solara
rioxarray==0.15.0
    # via bmi-topography
rpds-py==0.10.0
    # via
    #   jsonschema
    #   referencing
send2trash==1.8.2
    # via jupyter-server
six==1.16.0
    # via
    #   asttokens
    #   bleach
    #   python-dateutil
    #   rfc3339-validator
sniffio==1.3.0
    # via anyio
snuggs==1.4.7
    # via rasterio
solara==1.19.0
    # via mesa
soupsieve==2.4.1
    # via beautifulsoup4
stack-data==0.6.2
    # via ipython
starlette==0.31.1
    # via solara
terminado==0.17.1
    # via
    #   jupyter-server
    #   jupyter-server-terminals
text-unidecode==1.3
    # via python-slugify
tinycss2==1.2.1
    # via nbconvert
toolz==0.12.0
    # via
    #   dask
    #   partd
tornado==6.3.3
    # via
    #   bokeh
    #   ipykernel
    #   jupyter-client
    #   jupyter-server
    #   jupyterlab
    #   mesa
    #   notebook
    #   terminado
tqdm==4.66.1
    # via
    #   mesa
    #   panel
traitlets==5.9.0
    # via
    #   comm
    #   ipykernel
    #   ipython
    #   ipywidgets
    #   jupyter-client
    #   jupyter-console
    #   jupyter-core
    #   jupyter-events
    #   jupyter-server
    #   jupyterlab
    #   matplotlib-inline
    #   nbclient
    #   nbconvert
    #   nbformat
    #   qtconsole
typing-extensions==4.7.1
    # via
    #   panel
    #   reacton
tzdata==2023.3
    # via pandas
uc-micro-py==1.0.2
    # via linkify-it-py
uri-template==1.3.0
    # via jsonschema
urllib3==2.0.4
    # via requests
uvicorn==0.23.2
    # via solara
watchdog==3.0.0
    # via solara
wcwidth==0.2.6
    # via prompt-toolkit
webcolors==1.13
    # via jsonschema
webencodings==0.5.1
    # via
    #   bleach
    #   tinycss2
websocket-client==1.6.2
    # via jupyter-server
websockets==11.0.3
    # via solara
widgetsnbextension==4.0.8
    # via ipywidgets
xarray==2023.8.0
    # via
    #   bmi-topography
    #   rioxarray
xyzservices==2023.7.0
    # via
    #   bokeh
    #   panel
zipp==3.16.2
    # via importlib-metadata

# The following packages are considered to be unsafe in a requirements file:
# setuptools
