#
# This file is autogenerated by pip-compile with Python 3.11
# by the following command:
#
#    pip-compile requirements.in
#
alabaster==0.7.13
    # via sphinx
attrs==23.1.0
    # via
    #   jsonschema
    #   referencing
babel==2.12.1
    # via sphinx
beautifulsoup4==4.12.2
    # via
    #   furo
    #   nbconvert
bleach==6.0.0
    # via nbconvert
certifi==2023.7.22
    # via requests
charset-normalizer==3.2.0
    # via requests
click==8.1.7
    # via
    #   click-default-group
    #   towncrier
click-default-group==1.2.4
    # via towncrier
defusedxml==0.7.1
    # via nbconvert
docutils==0.20.1
    # via
    #   nbsphinx
    #   sphinx
    #   sphinx-jinja
fastjsonschema==2.18.0
    # via nbformat
furo==2023.8.19
    # via -r requirements.in
idna==3.4
    # via requests
imagesize==1.4.1
    # via sphinx
incremental==22.10.0
    # via towncrier
jinja2==3.1.2
    # via
    #   nbconvert
    #   nbsphinx
    #   sphinx
    #   sphinx-jinja
    #   towncrier
jsonschema==4.19.0
    # via nbformat
jsonschema-specifications==2023.7.1
    # via jsonschema
jupyter-client==8.3.1
    # via nbclient
jupyter-core==5.3.1
    # via
    #   jupyter-client
    #   nbclient
    #   nbconvert
    #   nbformat
jupyterlab-pygments==0.2.2
    # via nbconvert
markupsafe==2.1.3
    # via
    #   jinja2
    #   nbconvert
mistune==3.0.1
    # via nbconvert
nbclient==0.8.0
    # via nbconvert
nbconvert==7.8.0
    # via nbsphinx
nbformat==5.9.2
    # via
    #   nbclient
    #   nbconvert
    #   nbsphinx
nbsphinx==0.9.3
    # via -r requirements.in
packaging==23.1
    # via
    #   nbconvert
    #   sphinx
pandocfilters==1.5.0
    # via nbconvert
platformdirs==3.10.0
    # via jupyter-core
pygments==2.16.1
    # via
    #   furo
    #   nbconvert
    #   sphinx
python-dateutil==2.8.2
    # via jupyter-client
pyzmq==25.1.1
    # via jupyter-client
referencing==0.30.2
    # via
    #   jsonschema
    #   jsonschema-specifications
requests==2.31.0
    # via sphinx
rpds-py==0.10.2
    # via
    #   jsonschema
    #   referencing
six==1.16.0
    # via
    #   bleach
    #   python-dateutil
snowballstemmer==2.2.0
    # via sphinx
soupsieve==2.5
    # via beautifulsoup4
sphinx==7.2.5
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   furo
    #   nbsphinx
    #   sphinx-basic-ng
    #   sphinx-copybutton
    #   sphinx-inline-tabs
    #   sphinx-jinja
    #   sphinxcontrib-applehelp
    #   sphinxcontrib-devhelp
    #   sphinxcontrib-htmlhelp
    #   sphinxcontrib-qthelp
    #   sphinxcontrib-serializinghtml
    #   sphinxcontrib-towncrier
sphinx-basic-ng==1.0.0b2
    # via furo
sphinx-copybutton==0.5.2
    # via -r requirements.in
sphinx-inline-tabs==2023.4.21
    # via -r requirements.in
sphinx-jinja==2.0.2
    # via -r requirements.in
sphinxcontrib-applehelp==1.0.7
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-devhelp==1.0.5
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-htmlhelp==2.0.4
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-jsmath==1.0.1
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-qthelp==1.0.6
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-serializinghtml==1.1.9
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-towncrier==0.3.2a0
    # via -r requirements.in
tinycss2==1.2.1
    # via nbconvert
tomli==2.0.1
    # via -r requirements.in
tornado==6.3.3
    # via jupyter-client
towncrier==23.6.0
    # via sphinxcontrib-towncrier
traitlets==5.9.0
    # via
    #   jupyter-client
    #   jupyter-core
    #   nbclient
    #   nbconvert
    #   nbformat
    #   nbsphinx
urllib3==2.0.4
    # via requests
webencodings==0.5.1
    # via
    #   bleach
    #   tinycss2
